README.md, before:

# arch-boxes
[![CI Status](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/arch-boxes/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/arch-boxes/-/pipelines)

Arch-boxes provides several different VM images.

The images are built daily and released fortnightly (via [GitLab CI schedule](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/arch-boxes/-/pipeline_schedules)) and synced to the mirrors.

## Images

### QCOW2 images
At the time of writing we offer two different QCOW2 images. The images are synced to the mirrors under the `images` directory, e.g.: https://geo.mirror.pkgbuild.com/images/.

#### Basic image
The basic image is meant for local usage and comes preconfigured with the user `arch` (password: `arch`) and sshd running.

#### Cloud image
The cloud image is meant to be used in "the cloud" and comes with [`cloud-init`](https://cloud-init.io/) preinstalled. For tested cloud providers and instructions please see the [ArchWiki's Arch Linux on a VPS page](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Arch_Linux_on_a_VPS#Official_Arch_Linux_cloud_image).

## Development

### Dependencies
You'll need the following dependencies:

* arch-install-scripts
* btrfs-progs
* curl
* dosfstools
* gptfdisk
* jq
* qemu-img

### How to build this
The official builds are done in our Arch Linux GitLab CI and can be built locally by running (as root):

    ./build.sh

# Releases

Every release is signed by our CI with the following key:
```
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
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=APeC
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
```

Commit message:

Add changes to README.md

README.md, after:

# arch-boxes
[![CI Status](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/arch-boxes/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/arch-boxes/-/pipelines)

Arch-boxes provides several different VM images.

The images are built daily and released fortnightly (via [GitLab CI schedule](https://gitlab.archlinux.org/archlinux/arch-boxes/-/pipeline_schedules)) and synced to the mirrors.

## Images

### QCOW2 images
At the time of writing we offer two different QCOW2 images. The images are synced to the mirrors under the `images` directory, e.g.: https://geo.mirror.pkgbuild.com/images/.

#### Basic image
The basic image is meant for local usage and comes preconfigured with the user `arch` (password: `arch`) and sshd running.

#### Cloud image
The cloud image is meant to be used in "the cloud" and comes with [`cloud-init`](https://cloud-init.io/) preinstalled. For tested cloud providers and instructions please see the [ArchWiki's Arch Linux on a VPS page](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Arch_Linux_on_a_VPS#Official_Arch_Linux_cloud_image).

#### Yandex Cloud image
The Yandex Cloud image is specifically optimized for Yandex Cloud platform and comes with [`cloud-init`](https://cloud-init.io/) preinstalled and configured for Yandex Cloud's EC2-compatible metadata service. This image includes:
- Cloud-init with EC2 datasource configuration
- Serial console support for Yandex Cloud
- Cloud-init 25.1+ compatibility fixes (includes `ds-identify.cfg` configuration)
- Required packages: `cloud-init`, `cloud-guest-utils`, `gptfdisk`

**Note:** This image has been updated to address breaking changes in cloud-init 25.1.4, ensuring compatibility with the latest cloud-init versions.

## Development

### Dependencies
You'll need the following dependencies:

* arch-install-scripts
* btrfs-progs
* curl
* dosfstools
* gptfdisk
* jq
* qemu-img

### How to build this
The official builds are done in our Arch Linux GitLab CI and can be built locally by running (as root):

    ./build.sh

#### Selective image building
You can build specific images by setting the `IMAGES` environment variable with a comma-separated list of image names:

    IMAGES="cloud-image,basic" ./build.sh
    IMAGES="yandex-cloud-image" ./build.sh

Available image types:
- `basic` - Basic image for local usage
- `cloud-image` - Generic cloud image
- `yandex-cloud-image` - Yandex Cloud optimized image
- `libvirt-executor` - GitLab CI runner image with git, git-lfs, and gitlab-runner preinstalled

If no `IMAGES` variable is set, all images will be built by default.

# Releases

Every release is signed by our CI with the following key:
```
-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
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=APeC
-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
```
